1)What is Maven
Ans: Maven is a popular open-source build tool developed by the Apache Group to build, publish, and deploy several projects
at once for better project management. The tool provides allows developers to build and document the lifecycle framework.

2)Why Maven

Ans: * Maven provides the common interface for the developers
     * Maven take care of the dependency management
     * Maven has it's repository where it puts all the artifacts and it's plugins and it will download them on fly so if
       a project needs a perticular dependency in the open source those dependency will be pulled from this repository

3)Maven Commands
Ans:
    command Meaning
   
    1)mvn version 			1)Prints out the version of MAven running
    2)mvn clean 				2)Cleans the target directory into which maven
							build projects
    3)mvn install  			3)Builds the project described by our maven pom
							fileand install jar into our local repository
    4)mvn clean install 		4)Clears the target directory and builds the project
						described by your Maven POM file and installs the
						resulting artifact (JAR) into your local Maven
						repository

4)Maven Life Cycle
Ans:
There are 5 phases namely,
validate
Test
Package
Verify
Install
Deploy

Validate: This step validates if the project structure is correct. For example – It checks if all the dependencies have been downloaded and are available in the local repository.

Compile: It compiles the source code, converts the .java files to .class and stores the classes in target/classes folder.

Test: It runs unit tests for the project.

Package: This step packages the compiled code in distributable format like JAR or WAR.

Integration test: It runs the integration tests for the project.

Verify: This step runs checks to verify that the project is valid and meets the quality standards.

Install: This step installs the packaged code to the local Maven repository.

Deploy: It copies the packaged code to the remote repository for sharing it with other developers.
